Post  on Rosalind and The Art Genome Project (#575)
artsy/artsy.github.io: _posts/2019-05-09-rosalind.markdown

We recently bade a fond farewell to two [of][db] [the][orta] champions of our “open source by default” ethos, but
this spirit lives on at Artsy.

Today we open-source one of our key metadata apps, and explain how it fits into Artsy’s ecosystem.

<!-- more -->

## Open source by default… or at least eventually

Even when we don’t start a project by building in the open, we encourage ourselves to question why that is so. Can
we go ahead and open things up? If the answer is no (and it might be), are we clear on why not?

We’ve even added a [light bit of process][peril] to promote this kind of questioning. Our robots will periodically
trawl our GitHub org and file an issue against any closed-source repo that doesn’t include a rationale for its
closed nature in the project README.

<figure class="illustration">
  <img alt="Peril issue" src="/images/2019-05-09-rosalind/issue.png"  />
  <figcaption>Robot would like to have a word with you</figcaption>
</figure>

One of our repos got this [treatment][issue] recently. I’m the point person on this project, and while I considered
adding a rationale of “_primary author will die of acute impostor syndrome if this repo is open-sourced, he will

> just stop living_ 😅,” instead we’ve gone ahead and made this repo public.

Author: Hey now, I'm not some kind of barnyard animal.

now, but was described by [Sarah][sarah] in an an [earlier blog post][helix_post].)

What’s genoming, you ask, and what’s it got to do with art?

Artsy’s discovery and recommendation capabilites are powered in large part by [The Art Genome Project][tagp_about],
a comprehensive system of classification that uses our homegrown art-historical controlled vocabulary to describe
the artists and artworks in our database. (Here’s an [explainer][tagp_facts] and our full list of
[categories][tagp_categories]. You can even view a [structured data export][tagp_export] of the “genes” which make
up our controlled vocabulary.)

<figure class="illustration">
  <img alt="Helix" src="/images/2019-05-09-rosalind/helix.png"  />
  <figcaption>Screenshot of Helix, an app for genoming artists and artworks, and an early foray into React</figcaption>
</figure>

For a long time, our team of art historians — the Genome Team — bore sole responsibility for applying this
vocabulary, using Helix, to the artworks that entered our platform. This was always a daunting task, and only
became more so as our network of partner galleries and institutions continued to grow and upload more artworks.

> Artsy is now home to over 1,000,000 artworks by over 100,000 artists, described by over 1,000 genes. It became

Author: These numbers come from the Stats and Facts doc on Atlas.

clear to us, years ago even, that in order to continue applying high-quality metadata at scale, we were going to

> need some new processes and some new tools.

Reviewer: This sentence is a little squiffy, maybe we could re-arrange the clauses? 

> A few years ago, it became clear to us that in order to continue applying high-quality metadata at scale, we were going to need some new processes and some new tools.

maintenance. Along the way we’ve ridden some of the larger trends in the React+Rails ecosystem, as well as internal
trends.

- We started out on [webpack-rails][webpack_rails], an early pioneer in nudging Rails away from the Asset Pipeline
  provided by Sprockets, and toward Webpack

- We [migrated][webpacker_migration] over to the [Webpacker][webpacker] gem once that became a core Rails concern

- We [migrated][tests_migration] from RSpec feature specs to [Rails system tests][system_tests], after that was
  rolled out

- We experimented with adopting [Reaction][reaction], our shared internal React component library

- We more recently switched to using [Palette][palette], our nascent design system library

After being in maintenance mode for a couple of years, we’re excited to start up new feature work again, and plan
to bring even more bits of the [Artsy Omakase][artsy_omakase] into this project. Maybe this project will even be a
good proving ground for [prettier-ruby][prettier_ruby].

Whatever happens, Rosalind will continue to play an important role in maintaining Artsy’s high-quality metadata and

> in making Artsy one of the best online destinations for art.

Reviewer: Up to you, but we have the option to be a little boastful on our own blog 😄 

```suggestion
in making Artsy the best online destination for art.
```
